you
talking about Central America the Middle
East South Africa our people are dying
here man well Mourinho last year was
working applying methyl bromide to a
field that was to be planted in
strawberries in the third year
accumulating that methyl bromide he got
knocked off the tractor almost died over
the weekend he's totally disabled has
frequent seizures and in a high dosage
of dilantin his wife didn't fare very
well she died last year she was 39 years
old with an enlarged liver and suspicion
of the doctors is accumulation of those
pesticides my father died in nineteen
eighty and he also died from the
symptoms of a long life of accumulating
those chemicals and the only thing that
our government has the goal to do is
haul call hearings around the country to
see if they are going to implement the
national standard for having bathroom
facilities and washrooms in the fields
to wash our hands to have a toilet on
the worksite it is a disgrace to our
families to our children to the women to
be seeking the nearest cornfield the
nearest woods in the nearest ditch to
have to go to the bathroom and talk
about sexual harassment where I've seen
my little sisters of my family have to
go into the field of corn
and then to find them coming crying from
there because the growers kids were
spying on them those are not humane
working conditions well you see this is
why we went on strike over 2,000 of us
walked out of the fields and what is now
has been the largest agricultural strike
in the history of the Midwest we've been
on strike since 1978 this summer will be
our sixth season of picketing those
tomato fields and we haven't done it
with a great amount of opposition the
first people to come out and try to
break the strike with the growers
vigilante groups when the growers
couldn't break the strike they put
pressure on the sheriff of the county
with the strike originated to do
something about us well he did a lot of
things but the worst thing he did when
we approached a field of farm workers
who were a half a mile away from the
road we asked how we could communicate
with those workers because we went to
the labor camp the grower had a German
police dog running on a line back and
forth so no one could get in or out
without being inspected by the labor
contractor who promptly would come out
with a pistol so we said we have a right
to talk to those workers so we took
seven eight hundred workers to a picket
line in front of that field and did an
act of civil disobedience and marched
into the field and sat down with those
workers until they all walked out
the sheriff the sheriff managed to come
and arrest 27 of us after the after it
was or but 27 us were still in the field
and the sheriff arrested us took us to
jail while we were in a holding pen
behind the jail the sheriff came out
while we were talking to our attorney
who wasn't even a Mexican he was a nice
Irish guy from Cleveland who came down
to be our staff lawyer wanting to arrest
our lawyer on a traffic violation not
only arrest him but bring him into
custody when our lawyer told him he had
to be crazy the sheriff said to his
deputies to jump him for deputies and a
farmer jumped him and beat our attorney
John Kilroy unconscious all he was left
it splattered in a pool of blood in
front of over 40 witnesses including two
lawyers two priests five Roman Catholic
nuns they dragged him into the jail and
after he was hospitalized the
neurologist informed us that they had
fractured his skull caused him cranial
nerve damage and to this day that
attorney is still disabled we sued that
chair from the federal court a case it
was litigated for more than four years
while it was being litigated a cup four
of his his deputies got nervous and told
him that they were no longer going to
cover up for him so the shirt fired them
those four deputies hired a lawyer suit
the sheriff for wrongful firing the
sheriff got rid of that lawyer by
burning his house down and running him
out of the state that lawyer has hired
another attorney to sue the sheriff for
that then there was a grand jury
indictment where that Sheriff was
indicted on 27 counts 11 other felonies
he whitewashed all those charges by
running all the witnesses out of the
state the state appointed a special
prosecutor to investigate that Sheriff
the special prosecutor couldn't find a
single witness to testify against a chef
for neck kind because everybody feared
him and they told us what are you
Mexicans going to do against that
Sheriff a grand jury couldn't do nothing
his own deputies couldn't do nothing a
special prosecutor couldn't do nothing
well I said well maybe we can't do
nothing but I'll tell you what we were
getting arrested and beat up before the
strike and now we're getting arrested
and beat up because we're in the strike
at least now happening for a good reason
we just won that case in January
not only did we win the case we got a
permanent injunction against that
Sheriff to stay at least 35 feet away
from any organized or any member any
picutre in that county so now when the
sheriff couldn't break the strike they
brought in the Ku Klux Klan burned
across in front of our fuel headquarters
shotgun blasted out the windows of our
office in that County and their favorite
trick will take the internal organs of
farm animals or the sex organs of the
farm animals and stake the bloody mess
with the front doors of people that
supported us in that county to
intimidate them to keep them from coming
to meetings but the people still kept
coming to meetings and now the latest
way of attacking us you know there
aren't a whole lot of laws in this
country that protect the farm workers
outside of California and even now Cesar
has announced that the LRA is dead and
we're going back to the streets and back
to the boycott the latest tool that
they're using to fight us campbell soups
main argument is that they're not the
employers or the farm workers because
they use this medieval system of crop
contracting to wash their hands of any
responsibility that people who do the
work on the bottom of the industry
they're saying they point the finger to
the growers that contract to grow the
tomatoes and the pickles for them well
now the growers are saying they're not
the employers either last year in a
federal court ruling a precedent a girl
was found innocent of mass violations of
child labor because the judge says we
are now sharecroppers we're independent
contractors self-employed so now we can
forget about child labor standards
minimum wage standards Social Security
and anything
that has existed the minimal things to
protect us that's they're using that
knowledge of defense to keep us from
filing workman's compensation claims in
those two states but you know we all
know where that system of sharecropping
came from and I think that this was
brings us together with a whole new
dimension of people to be involved in
the struggle you see when the Civil War
was then that over a hundred years ago
the slave owners had to come up with a
new system to keep them folks and the
plantations without calling them slaves
so they invented this crop contracting
sharecropping arrangement and kept the
people on the plantation to keep
exploiting them so I'm telling you that
the Civil War never ended
the only the only thing that was ended
in those years was the financial fight
between the financial interests of the
industrial north and agricultural South
they sell their problems but the poor
people kept on suffering the people
still kept getting exploited and those
things that came out of that oppression
were the things that we're being fought
in the civil rights movement the
movements that we have today we're
fighting still the consequences of that
system of oppression and repression so
now in agriculture in the Midwest anyway
they're not black folk doing that work
there the Mexican folk that guess that
makes us the new in this country
so
when you in that situation the only
thing we know what learned how to do
it's a figure out a way to regain some
kind of spirit as a human being because
it's not easy to watch your mother to
watch your little sisters your little
brothers thinking suffering to become a
statistic it is no wonder why among
farmworker women the miscarriage rate is
125 percent higher than the rest of the
female population that the infant
mortality rate is seven times higher
than the national average that our life
expectancy is 49 years lower for our
members the 17 members in our
organization that have passed away in
the last seven years their average age
was 39 years and then the British
Broadcasting Company documents two
summers ago that forty percent of the
workforce in those pickles and tomato
fields are children under 15 years of
age we're asking for Americans to stand
up again and not only to eliminate the
people from a suffering situation but
eliminate the system altogether and
finally in the Civil War
we've gotten a big education to know who
the enemy is the enemy is just not
campbell soup while we're at campbell
soup is a mechanism of the real
oppressor when we started looking at who
campbell soup us you know campbell soup
really is campbell soup is the
Philadelphia National Bank the
philadelphia international bank the bank
of new jersey the Prudential Insurance
Company the Ford Motor Company these are
the people with the controlling stock in
that company Morgan guaranty trust they
are the same people whose directors
control the financial centers that
monopolize our lives and those of other
people who are being oppressed in Latin
America
the reason campbell soup is threatened
with us eliminating their crop
contracting and sharecropping system is
because it opens the door to something
phenomenal we are only going to be
organizing 3,000 workers in a contract
with Campbell Soup if you help us with
the boycott but Heinz hunt Stokely
VanCamp delmonte all the major food
processors in this country have
operations in the Midwest when you total
up the workers working under that crop
contracting and sharecropping system
you're talking about sixty to eighty
thousand farm workers that are being
enslaved by that system of sharecropping
and crop contracting and because these
most of these workers are migrant
workers can you imagine a group of
organized of sixty to eighty thousand
farmworkers migrating back to their home
states in Texas and Florida some of you
have asked when is cesar chavez going to
get out of California while we are the
organizing committee that is breaking
that ground to establish at National
Union of farmworkers so these financial
interests and they are the same
financial interests that control the
citrus groves of Florida and Texas and
the vegetables in South Florida and
Texas the same financial interests we
are going to cut off their oppressive
system around the country and that is
not going to be that is not going to be
enough we have to develop our vision to
include within our ranks within our
movement those farm workers that are
struggling against the same companies in
Canada and Mexico in Guatemala in Belize
and other parts of the world where the
same companies and the same financial
interests are pressing the same people
that do the same jobs that we do in this
country
campbell soup is in town tomorrow
morning they heard about our that we're
doing something at the Democratic
convention next week so we got the word
last night that they're coming in to put
some heavy pressure on the leadership of
the National Democratic Party we just
learned today that they're going to be
offering them some money
they're beginning to throw money all
over the place I got calls from the
National Council of La Raza I've got
calls from the Texas migrant console
from all the groups to deal with the
farm worker issues in the Midwest
offering them 70 80 150 130 thousand
dollars a shot let them spend their
money we're still going to boycott I
want to leave you with I want to leave
you with one thought you know a lot of
people tell us jeez how can you people
fight for so long how can you people
think you're going to win against these
big money people well you know the issue
is not whether we got more money than
them but whether we have that spirit of
struggle this is going to outlast the
money they're going to be willing to
spend on us and cesar chavez put put it
more eloquently i think that anyone can
put it he said well you know these big
companies they got money now mr. ron
back or mr. O'Brien from the campbell
soup company will be the ones coming in
town tomorrow now they probably flew in
their first class they're probably
staying in the nicest hotel in town that
probably eat the nicest meals I mean all
that is going to take some money and
they got some and we don't have that but
somehow we managed to get from Ohio to
here with the help of our friends we get
a meal in their homes sleep in their
homes is not costing us anything only
thing it's costing us is our time so the
real contest is between the time that
we're investing and the
that they're investing and you tell us
what there's a lot more of time or money
and my knees got to run out before time
and that's all we're going to win
bootcut bootcut bootcut merica Kilauea
thank you velasquez they have people
coming from Vermont to San Francisco for
the convention in San Francisco the
hotels are going to be full but we have
our own coming to the people's
convention I'm talking about the United
States congressman or Ronald Elam's
delam
brothers and sisters of the deus and
brothers and sisters of the people's
convention it's a special pleasure and a
privilege for me to address you tonight
when dan siegel asked me to speak and we
agreed I asked what is being asked of me
what do they want me to talk about they
said well tell Ron he has 30 minutes and
what would he say to the progressive
community in 30 minutes but don't forget
to talk about coalition politics so I'm
going to try to talk with you maybe 30
minutes I know that I was drawing late
but I want to begin by talking about
coalition politics and then that's moved
to the moment let me indulge me for a
moment as I try to walk you briefly
through my own thought process that
leads me to the conclusion that
coalition politics the only hope that we
have to bring sanity and changed to our
communities to our nation into our world
what brings us together in this room I
believe very profoundly from the length
and breadth of this country is not only
the idealism and the enthusiasm and the
courage to challenge insanity but what
brings us together is that we share a
set of politics and I believe in order
to have a set of politics one has to
have four things a value system upon
which that set of politics is firmly
rooted an analytical frame of reference
a set of goals and objectives and
finally a strategy that you seek to
achieve those goals and objectives you
begin with values remember Martin Luther
King before he died said the revolution
must be a revolution of values your
politics are rooted firmly in your
belief system let me give you three
examples of my own beliefs
first every human being on the face of
this earth every human being has the
right to flower to grow and to function
and realize that fullest and total
potential as human beings
another value simply stated says that
life not money not bullets not bombs not
property life is the most precious
substance on the face of this earth
a third value simply says that each of
us must assume the responsibility for
the world we see stated a different way
we must all be responsible for the
knowledge we have if we see and
understand depression we must challenge
it if we see and understand injustice we
must challenge it we must be responsible
for what we see now if you take those
basic values that then becomes the basis
upon which you establish an analysis
because the first question what
endangers life and inhibits growth if
each human being has the right to grow
to their fullest potential and that life
is a very precious substance what in
danger that life and what inhibits
growth racism inhibits life and impedes
growth sexism inhibits life and impede
growth age chauvinism discrimination
against sexual preference insensitivity
to people in wheelchairs people who
cannot see people who cannot hear these
are all forms of how we deny human
beings the opportunity to function my
brother mentioned that he was one of the
new for those of you in the Bay
Area you remember back in the early 70s
I used to give a speech I used to
talk about redefining who the of
America are if you take the definition
that it anyone in our society
whose role is defined limited by others
whose opportunities are defined and
limited by others and whose justice is
meted out on the base of expediency and
not truth in mercy good news for all
black people in this room you don't have
to be black to be treated like a
in America if you apply that definition
they're black Brown red
yellow white women
gay student peace
old poor
working-class this is a nation
where the majority of people are
and if
ever unite we can bring change in
this country
but I'm getting ahead of my rap if you
start with a set of values as I said and
apply them to the world around you and
ask those questions what inhibits the
life of these people putting dangerous
people acid rain and dangers life
polluting the air including the water in
dangers life labor practices that kill
and destroy and be humanized in dangers
life nuclear weapons endanger life the
mentality of war in dangers life
militaristic interventionist foreign
policies endanger life a set of human
priorities that have us spending
billions of dollars building a monument
to military madness and denying us the
capacity to address the human misery of
people in the various forms that it is
visited upon them in dangers life so
once you start with a set of values
one's belief system what we think ought
to be right in the world we then look at
our society to determine what are the
factors that preclude that value from
going forward then taking us to the
third aspect of politics a plan a set of
goals and objectives policies and
programs and ideas that will move
forward these values programs that will
strike down for all time the vestiges of
racism and sexism and age chauvinism and
classism and prejudice against sexual
preference insensitivity to human beings
with a variety of problems as they
attempt to confront life
talk about new priorities new ways of
solving the problems of unemployment and
poverty and hunger and disease ways of
rebuilding the cities to make their
monuments to our brilliance and our
genius and our sensitivities and not
monuments to our madness challenging the
nuclear arms race all of these things
become goals and objectives that we
attempt to achieve to implement our
value system but then how do you get to
coalition you have to have a strategy by
which you seek to achieve those programs
those policies those ideas those
objectives those goals coalition
politics where all the various people
who have been harmed by a system that
reeks oppression by a system that
advocates injustice by a system that
threatens by a system that establishes a
set of priorities that adversely impact
the lives of millions of people so
coalition politics is simply the
convergence of people with mutual
self-interest people don't move for your
reasons they move for their own people
don't move for my reasons they move for
their own and so tonight what my speech
is simply about is to help redefine what
everybody self-interest is if you are
one of the that I alluded to
earlier then we have a common self
interest in eradicated ISM in all
of the forms that it is visited upon the
people whether it's sexism or racism or
whatever the Democratic Party has now
decided uh-huh we will place a woman on
the ticket and some people will say
magnificent victory our job is done our
response is you've only opened the door
there are millions of people that have
to rush through that door they're still
out there who are not inside that
process
which leads me now to the main point
that I want to make the sign says unite
dump Reagan let me start with dump
Reagan and then come to unite clearly we
must get rid of this administration and
it's not just Ronald Reagan the
personality we are not that naive and
shallow in our understanding it is
getting rid of a mentality a set of
politics in this country that are
dangerous and frightening understand our
children would not forgive us if we do
not rid them of this madness and this
danger
here is a mentality that seeks to
achieve peace by preparing for war
here's a mentality that caused an MX
missile a peacekeeper when we all know
it's only function is to destroy life at
an awesome level here is a mentality
that says Central America is in our
backyard here is a mentality that says
we must manipulate an exploit el
salvador militarized honduras threaten
nicaragua envy grenada get in bed with
south africa here is an administration
that means it makes a distinction
between the good communist and the bad
communist the good communists are the
ones that can bomb us back the bad
communists are the tiny little nations
that we can bully with CIA monies and
con trials and other things this kind of
mentality has to be dumped there's no
question about that it can and it will
be done by the people because when the
people stand out they can defeat Ronald
Reagan he is not invincible this man can
be defeated and so can his
administration
but here's my admonishment first I make
a simple statement big turnout Reagan
loses small turnout Reagan's people win
but this is my admonishment the only way
that we would defeat Ronald Reagan is in
unity but people cannot unify in a
vacuum I hear the press and other people
running around saying we better unify
the defeat Reagan as if in some way you
can unify with our purpose you have to
unify with a purpose and there's
unfinished business Jesse Jackson's
campaigned rainbow coalition has for
minority reports that we ought to make
the cornerstone of the Democratic Party
yes you've now a placed a sister on the
national ticket that's eons of time
overdue but understand this it wasn't so
much that mine they are made a choice
you know why the sisters on the ticket
because women stood up without
equivocation and clarity and said there
will be a woman in 84 and it will be
Geraldine Ferraro and who was it a woman
at Geraldine Ferraro he had no decision
and what I'm saying to you is we must
now say to our brothers and sisters in
the Democratic Party you must now speak
with equal force and equal clarity on
the issue of no first use of nuclear
weapons
let's talk about it for just a moment
I've asked a question of the Pentagon
the Soviet Union has publicly said they
would embrace the policy of no first use
why I can't this administration embrace
that policy their response was because
we don't want the Soviet Union to
believe that under certain circumstances
we would not strike them first now what
that's saying brothers and sisters is
that we have moved beyond deterrence to
the development of a warfighting
capability and as many of you heard me
say before anyone who believes that we
can fight survive and win a nuclear wars
by definition certifiably mentally
disturbed and so the Democratic Party
the Democratic Party in my estimation
has an obligation to go on record in
opposition to the use of nuclear
weaponry and if people could speak
clearly about a woman on the ticket and
who that woman could be and when what
that should signal us is when you speak
with clarity and with unity and with
force the establishment has no other
recourse but to deal with it and so one
of the causes that we must champion now
over these next several days and win
lose or draw on the next several days go
home and organize and local communities
because remember politicians heard at
home if you want to get to a politician
it's not in Washington where you heard
them you heard them at home and so if we
lose here in seven days best places to
come back but we have to challenge them
on no first use of nuclear weaponry that
endangers life that's an aspect of the
coalition Obama is an equal opportunity
destroyer it doesn't care what color you
are what your sex is your religion what
your sexual preference or whatever and
if we can be equalized in the side of a
bomb we damn well can organize in the
spirit of peace
secondly we must advocate that the
Democratic Party embraced the minority
report that calls for substantial
reductions in American military budget
when I went to Congress 1971 the
American military budget was 70 summer I
billion dollars ten years later fiscal
1981 173 billion fiscal 82 218 billion
fiscal 83 244 billion fiscal 84 265
billion in this year round Reagan asked
the congress of the united states for
313 billion dollars and i sat in a
house-senate conference just two weeks
ago across the table from giant towers
and he looked the house members in the
eye and said not a dime less than two
hundred ninety nine billion dollars for
the military budget now for the
Democratic Party to say we will only
slow down the increase is an absurdity
listen to this if you accept zero growth
this fiscal year zero growth means that
you accept all of the assumption of the
Reagan budget last year but we've been
reduced to auctioneers the president
says I want 13.5 percent real growth
then the kind of conservatives say well
I'm willing to back down to seven point
five percent real growth then the
moderates say I want to go down below
six percent real growth then the real
liberals say well I'm for three or four
percent real growth I said if you take
it to zero you accept Reagan last year
we ought to not be talking about real
growth but real reduction and that's
what this minority report call for
how do you achieve real reduction first
you take the policy position that our
responsibility is to in the danger of
nuclear war which means you stop the MX
missile to b-1 bomber the Pershing
missile the cruise missile the Trident
missile if you say we don't need to
spend money on redundant unnecessary
wasteful weapon systems then why spend
40 billion dollars building 100 b1
bombers that will be obsolete before you
build them where I built 200 more
additional surface ships when we found
out in the Falkland Islands that a
ten-cent missile could knock out a
multi-million dollar surface ship and
that was Argentina considered a
fourth-rate naval power suppose we were
in a confrontation with the Soviet Union
what a long low 600 surface ships mean
then when they're not throwing Tencent
missiles at us but very sophisticated
forms of weaponry this is madness it's
not necessary if you accept a position
that a militaristic interventionist
foreign policy is inappropriate then
take all the money out for the rapid
deployment force you don't need them
what about the fact that your taxpayers
dollars spent over a thousand dollars to
buy a four dollar wrench several hundred
dollars to buy a two dollar boat and we
have to cut social programs and the
Democratic Party's best position is we
want to slow down the rate of growth
that makes no sense third program that
we must embrace as a minority plan
affirmative action here we are in 1984
in America and we're still sitting down
drawing artful words to define the
nature of our relationship with each
other we must take a very basic and
fundamental and simplistic statement all
human beings in this country should have
the right to flower and function and
grow and realize their fullest and total
potential as human beings and the role
of the government should be to guarantee
those rights and to enforce those laws
to the limit we should not have to sit
around here
talking about what should be affirmative
action black and brown and red and
yellow people have a right to grow women
have a right to function gay and lesbian
people have a right to be gay and
lesbian we have to get beyond these
archaic antiquated ancient ideas about
what human beings ought to be like
platitudes and morality that makes no
sense we can moralize about the gay
community but we don't moralize about
invading grenada or building nuclear
weapons that kill and threaten our
children
the fourth minority plant very simple
the Voting Rights Act now understand
that's controversial in a democratic
society where voting ought to be the
basic expression of people and they
participate in the process but we have
to now present a minority report to the
floor of Congress to the floor of the
convention my point is simply this a we
must in Reagan's madness as I said our
children not forgive us but the only way
it will be done as if we unify and we
can only unify when there is a purpose
that means people's self-interest must
be realized people must feel that there
is something in it for them to unify and
I'm saying to the women to all the
rainbow coalition you can make the
Democratic Party deal with a woman on
the ticket then you can make the
Democratic Party in this country do
anything you want them to do as long as
you understand what you want to do and
make the point with clarity and with
force and with conviction and with unity
again stop first use of nuclear weaponry
stop the notion of increasing the
military budget stop fees compromising
words about affirmative action and no
quotas I mean does that make any sense
if we say that fifty percent of this
country of women and women should be
involved in fifty percent of all the
business and that's quota they only have
two people on the national ticket when
they said want to be a woman that's
quota so then when it come to black and
fed well people or we don't want quotas
me this is absurdity we have to make a
clear and honest an unequivocal
statement what I'm saying to all of you
is that I appreciate all of you being
here because it's uplifting to each of
us in this room to know that we don't
struggle alone and many of you have
traveled several hundred miles some a
few thousand miles just to come and
experience the camaraderie and the
Brotherhood and sisterhood of other
people who understand the madness and
who are still willing to struggle well
let's continue
you over the next several days to
generate powerful ideas but also let
some of your energy be heard as this
other party generates its its activity
over in San Francisco for those of you
in this room who are members of the
activists terminus community go to San
Francisco and demand to meet with the
feminist inside the Democratic Party and
said let's talk about where we're going
those of you who are activists in the
peace movement in this room go to San
Francisco asked to meet with the Peace
caucus and talk about where the peace
caucus and the Democratic Party is going
to be on the issue of reducing the
military budget and no first use those
of you who are members of the farm labor
activist community go to San Francisco
and meet with the farm labor caucus meet
with the brown caucus meet with the
black caucus what I'm saying is that we
must now begin to unfold the strategy of
dialogue and communication you and I are
advocates of peace you and I believe
that talking and negotiating and
face-to-face confrontation is better
than war and violence and hostility so
let's make it work when you finish the
convention when you have clearly in your
mind what the progressive agenda ought
to be take it across the san francisco
and demand that it be heard there are
progressives inside the Democratic Party
and progresses outside the Democratic
Party the sister said some of you like
Ron Dellums what have you someday you're
a march out start another party maybe
but at this particular moment we have to
let our progressive ideas be known in
the lonely solitude of a party where we
are not in the majority and sometimes
that's when the real courage of your
convictions have to come out when you're
not surrounded by everybody that thinks
the way you think but when you're
surrounded by people who don't think the
way you think and you still talk about
peace and job and justice and freedom
and human dignity and the human spirit
then that's when the coalition really
makes sense
I look around at Dan and some of the
others dance a half thinning lines
etched in our face hair turning white
that many of us have been struggling for
a long time but back 10 to 15 years ago
Dan we thought we were running the
hundred meters we thought we could
change the world yesterday but as we get
older we find out that it's not a sprint
it's a marathon but understand this
brothers and sisters as long as you
willing to run there are some of us here
willing to go that 26 miles 385 yards
till we achieve freedom peace justice
and dignity for the human spirit in the
human condition and I join you another
random
Ron Dellums lived in denim
rhondella
you